1). What is an operating system and a kernel?.
       An Operating system --> is the most important program in a computer it acts as an interface between the userspace programs and the kernel.It manages computer memory and processes as well as all its software and hardware
       A kernel --> is the lowest level of an operating system closer to the hardware. some of its functions include:
                                                                                                                    -File management.
                          											    -Memory management
														    -System calls
														    -Process management
														    -network management
														    -Device drivers
2). Define what a process is and a thread is?
     A process --> is an instance of a program execution.
     A Thread --> is a single sequence stream within a process also known as a lightweight process.In a process threads allow multiple executions of streams.

3). Define what a critical section is and what mutual exclution is?
     A Critical section --> is a code segment that accesses shared variables/resources and has to be executed as an atomic action.
     A Mutual Exclusion --> if a process PI is executing in its critical section no other process is allowed to execute in its critical section.

4). What are system calls and interrupts?
       System calls --> are communications made by programs in the userspace to the kernel.
       Interrupts --> are signals made to the operating system by a software or a hardware indicating an event that needs immediate attention.

5). Define the concept of Semaphore?
     A semaphore --> is a data variable or a data structure that allows multiple processes to use data without making it inconsistent.

6). Define scheduling in the context of processes, what is the difference betwee non-preemptive scheduling and preemptive scheduling ?
     Scheduling --> is the process of selecting the next set of tasks to be run from a set of runnable processes.
     Preemptive sheduling --> is a process whereby the operating system decides to favour one process preempting the currently executing processes.
     Non-Preemptive scheduling --> is a process whereby a currently executing process voluntariry gives up the cpu control.

7). What is Internal and external fragmentation in the context of memory management?
     Internal fragmentation --> is the wasted space within each allocated block, due to the rounding up of the actual requested allocation to the allocation granularity.
     External fragmentation --> is the various free-spaced holes that are generated in eithier your memory or disk space. external fragmentation are available for
     allocation  although they might be too small to be of any use.
8). What is the rellocation requirement in the context of memory management?.
       Rellocation --> means moving stuff fro one place to another
                   --> In our case there is a program which contains an absolute address, which makes sense if the program is located at certain address A. if the program 
                       is  loaded to a different address B, we need to update all of these addressed, translating them by B-A.

9). What is MMU and what is its purpose?.
         Memory Management Unit --> Translates addresses between the CPU and the physical memory. This is used in the separation of processes it protects processes 
         running concurrently from corrupting each others processes.

10). What is a Virtual Memory? What is a page error?
        A Virtual Memory --> is the extra more memory addressed by a computer more than the physically installed capacity.
        A Page Error --> occurs when a program attempts to access a block of memory that is not stored in the physical memory or RAM.

11). What is a page table and TLB?
       A page table is a data structure used by a virtual memory system in a computer operating system that stores the mapping between the virtual addresses and the
       physical addresses.
       
       A Translation LookAside Buffer --> is a memory cache that reduces the time taken to access the user memory.

12). What is the difference between character and a block device?
         A Character device --> is one with which the driver communicates by sending and recieving single characters (bytes,octets) example: Parallel ports and Serial ports.
         A Block device --> is one with which the driver communicates by sending entire blocks of data. example: USB, hard-disks, cameras.

13). What is a DMA?
         A Direct Memory Access --> it is a process by which a periphery device transfers data in blocks rather than characters. 
         It is faster and free's up the CPU to go on with other stuff.
14). What is RAID?
         RAID --> RAID is a data storage virtualization technology that combines multiple physical disk drive components into one or more logical independent 
         units for the purposes of redundancy, performance improvement or both.

15). What is a File-System? and what is its purpose?
        File-System --> is an abstraction to store retrieve and update a set of files. It describes the abstract data types used for storing the metadata as well.
                    --> The file-system is responsible for organizing files and directories and keeping track of which areas of the media belong to which file and 
                        which are not being used.

16). What is an i-node?
         inode --> is a data structure in unix style filesystems that describes a file-system object such as a file or a directory. Each inode stores the 
                   attributes and disk block location of the objects data. Each inode stores the attributes and disk block location of the object data.


