What is an operating system and a kernel?
      Kernel: Kernel is the core part of an operating system which manages system resources. 
              It also acts like a bridge between application and hardware of the computer.
              It is one of the first programs loaded on start-up (after the Bootloader).
      Operating System: An operating system is a program that acts as an interface between the software and the computer hardware.
                        It is an integrated set of specialized programs used to manage overall resources and operations of the computer.
                        It is a specialized software that controls and monitors the execution of all other programs that reside in the computer,
                        including application programs and other system software.
                        
                        
Define what a process and a thread is!
              A process, in the simplest terms, is an executing program. One or more threads run in the context of the process. 
              A thread is the basic unit to which the operating system allocates processor time. 
              A thread can execute any part of the process code, including parts currently being executed by another thread.
              
              
Define what a critical section is, what is mutual exclusion?
              Critical Section: In simple terms a critical section is group of instructions/statements or region of code that need to be executed atomically, 
                                such as accessing a resource (file, input or output port, global data, etc.).
                                In concurrent programming, if one thread tries to change the value of shared data at the same time as another thread tries to read
                                the value (i.e. data race across threads), the result is unpredictable.
              Mutual Exclusion: Mutual exclusion implies that only one process can be inside the critical section at any time. 
                                If any other processes require the critical section, they must wait until it is free.
                                mutual exclusion refers to the requirement of ensuring that no two concurrent processes are in their 
                                critical section at the same time; it is a basic requirement in concurrency control,
                                to prevent race conditions
                                
What are system calls and interrupts?                                
                     a system call: is the programmatic way in which a computer program requests a service from the kernel of the operating
                                system it is executed on. A system call is a way for programs to interact with the operating system.
                                A computer program makes a system call when it makes a request to the operating system’s kernel.
                                System call provides the services of the operating system to the user programs via 
                                Application Program Interface(API).
                    Interrupts: An interrupt is an event that alters the sequence in which the processor executes instructions.
                               An interrupt might be planned (specifically requested by the currently running program)
                               or unplanned (caused by an event that might or might not be related to the currently running program).


Define the concept of a semaphore!
                    Semaphores: are integer variables that are used to solve the critical section problem by using two atomic operations,
                                wait and signal that are used for process synchronization
                                
Define scheduling in the context of processes! What is the difference between preemptive and non-preemptive scheduling? 


What is the external and internal fragmentation in the context of memory management?

What is the relocation requirement in the context of memory management?


What is the MMU, what is its main purpose?
